Aakash Thatte
BTech (2020-2024)
Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
Indian Institute of Technology, Bhilai


Education
Indian Institute of Technology, Bhilai
2020-2024
Bachelor of Technology, Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
CGPA: 8.78/10
Experience
Google Summer of Code Contributor @ DBpedia


Neural Extraction Framework
Wikipedia contains a lot of information in the infoboxes and text. This can be used to populate knowledge bases.
Task was to extract relational triples from wikipedia text instead of just the infoboxes.
Contributed the first end-2-end neural framework to extract relational triples from text.
Performed benchmarking and evaluation of GENRE, DBpedia lookup and a custom redis-db based entity linking
methods. Used REBEL for relation extraction and vector similarity for relation mapping. Found and reported
issues of REBEL and embedding similarity with negation sentences.
Needl AI
Machine Learning Intern
Financial documents like annual reports contain lot of tables with loads of information. These go un-extracted
due to text based IE methods.
Task was to extract these tables as pandas dataframes so as to make use of them in fact checking, QA, IE etc.
Applied DL with UnstructuredIO and custom methods to explore performance of and models like detectron2,
microsoft table transformers, google document AI etc.
Deployed an app to internally evaluate models for table detection, structure-recognition and OCR. Integrated
Nanonets and amazon-textract APIs for table extraction. With this, users can get all tables with a button click.
Weaviate
March 2022 - July 2022
Open source contributor
In very high dimensions euclidean and higher metrics can badly affect the similarity measures.
Added manhattan and hamming distance metrics to weaviate vector database version v1.15 by co-ordinating with
their engineers. Added five example applications using weaviate inlcuding a multi-modal search, attendence system,
QA etc.
Personal Projects
Approx-KNN for GNN pre-training
Contributed approximate-knn graph code to PyTorch-Geometric
Used an approx-KNN graph based pre-training for GNNs. Contributed it to pytorch geometric.
Sentence classification in medical abstracts
Applied NLP to the PubMed RCT dataset to classify sentences as part of "result", "conclusion" etc. Tribrid of
different embeddings gave 6% more accuracy and 6.33% increase in F1-Score than individual ones.

Experimented with different explainability methods for GNNs
Tools, technologies & algorithms used: Explainability, subgraph selection, Integrated gradients, PyG
Read research papers to explore GNN explainability, covering subgraph, concept and motif based methods.

Assignments and projects for CS550, Machine learning
Performed taxi fare and life expectancy prediction using KNN, SGD, closed form etc. vehicle classification using
SVM, XGBoost, Random forest etc. and compared different approaches.
Skills and Interests
Languages/Dev tools: Python, Git, Docker
ML Frameworks and tools: PyTorch, PyTorch-Geometric, HuggingFace, Spacy
Coursework: Advanced ML, ML, NLP, Data analytics, DBMS, Prob and Stats, Linear Algebra
Areas of Interest: NLP, open source, documenting my learnings
Soft skills: I like discussing and talking to people from different backgrounds and understand perspectives.

Inter IIT Sports Meet, Represented IIT Bhilai in the Badminton Team